I don't particularly know how to begin this write-up. For the last few years I have not been able to experience emotions and a proper way. For about the last two to three years, whenever I wished to cry, it would not come easily. I would only be able to express my emotions especially those of grief or discontent three days out of a month. This was not because I didn't feel anything rather but I felt it was inappropriate to be anything but expressionless. In my attempt to become more “normal”, I confronted several counsellors about the situation. The best advice I was given was when one of them asked me to see my triggers and memories without anything emotionally attached. Only what happened and how I tried to respond to the situation. Although this piece may not be a great example, I ask that, if you would like to, share your own experiences of being gaslit, be it by a boss, partners, companions, etc. If you have ever thought “did it happen or are you just mentally ill?” I’d ask you to consider my approach of logic based reasoning. I hope you enjoy my accounts and you can find release for your own experiences as well. 
Until quite recently I was seeing someone romantically who I believed was the best and most logical person to be with. It was not quite because they were any good in general rather that they were quite safe and an option that did not rely on much compassion or Mutual feeling. When we broke up, he began with the statement ”I don't think you love me as much as I love you” I had similar sentiments earlier, much earlier about him because I felt as if he thought I could be used to display his charity and compassion. The first time I attempted to break up with him was a year into our relationship. We got together as a way to spite others because we were tired of others writing our story and assuming a crush on each other, when we were only attempting to find each other a partner of the same gender. I had become infatuated with him when he began complimenting me out of nowhere, something no one else had even attempted to do at this time. He made little attempts to even fit someone to my preference and when I began flirting with other men he would insult them and their behaviour, telling me that they were negging me or seeing me as a plaything rather than a potential partner. Although I did not want to trust him completely, I had little to no experience with men, as I had believed myself to be as much of a lesbian as they came. So there I had a man, who has experiences with men, explaining to me exactly what these potentially terrible men were doing to manipulate me into a relationship, I saw no need to be skeptical about his words. Oh how wrong I was. Regardless, we ended up trying to work things out as a heteronormative, yet queer couple, because of spite, and because we believed that it wasn’t going to last, but it would be an interesting experience. 
For whatever reason, I decided to stay even after a terrible first date, where he made himself a public nuisance, I stayed after he let me know that he would not be able to be sexually gratified by my flesh alone, I stayed after he had a fit because I didn’t respond to his texts for a few hours because my mobile was not on my person. I feared the worst, I was led to believe that I, a 16 year old, would never meet anyone as good as a 17 year old boy that could not tell me the first thing to cultural appropriation and barely passed high school and continued to stumble and rumble in post-secondary education whilst blaming everything around him. I don’t believe in loving the same person for the rest of one’s living days, but I am a pessimist who believes that I don’t deserve anything greater than a child born from an accident, and two lifelong friends that I will lose by the time I turn 50, if I make it to 50.  
I felt like rather than being a romantic partner I was his patient. When we first got together we promised ourselves and each other that we would share many things including our mental instability when it comes up. I personally believe that from the original idea he brewed the idea of my personhood where I wasn't quite an ordinary mind. I recognize that it does not matter however definitely it did for him. I think in one way or another he saw me as a piece that could exonerate him if he were to do something controversial. it was like I was his token mentally ill, queer, female romantic companion he could make an example out of. One of the first instances where he gaslit me was about a year into our relationship. I told him I didn't feel anything for him anymore. That morning, I woke up with one thought in my mind “I don't love you anymore.” I don't think it came out of nowhere. I think I was quite frustrated at the predicament, because it felt like although we recognize that we got together to quell panic amongst our parents, it was becoming a transactional relationship. However, the transaction was no longer mutual care, emotional comfort, and protection, it was rather but we were using each other to allude to a healthy heteroromantic relationship, perhaps even being together because it was the safest option. I think in some ways I felt like I had to love him. a relationship was no longer about how much I loved him or appreciated his presence only that it was necessary for my survival, not on my own accord. I had recently been kicked out of a specialized program, where I met most of my friends. I had also recently fallen into a depression when I admitted to a close friend that I had a crush on her. I don’t remember hwe exact words, but we concluded it was a “mutual fuck up”, because she and I were too cowardly to speak our mind when we first realized the situation. Not to mention, my best friends from my final years of elementary school no longer spoke to me as often, it was like they wanted to terminate our friendship without saying anything. With one year left and essentially knew none of my new classmates and the loss of long term friends, he was one of the only people I could speak to about private matters surrounding my future and generally sensitive topics. Rather than telling me that he was okay with the break up, or that he is willing to change aspects of himself so we can remain together, he expressed great emotional paint, citing that the issue had never even come up in his mind. He believed that I said these things to him purely because I wanted to hurt him and see what his endurance to my mental abuse was to him. He also wanted to express to me that my thoughts were unsubstantiated, that I was too mentally depressed at that moment to actually commit anything emotionally. He asked me to reconsider my feelings, where they are from, and why I was behaving and thinking the way that I was. I was working on a piece based on my paranoia and fear of failure, and had more panic attacks than usual in that month. To quell my fears, I began listening to non-descript songs and music that was more pessimistic. He was under the belief that I was acting this way because I was mixing reality with my paranoia episodes. We stayed together for another year, during which it gradually became more hostile. 
I was already aware that he was not interested in the same things I was, and neither was I interested in his interest, such as video games and card games, yet I tried to work on my disinterest. It was not the same on his side. On many occasions, he expressed that he was not going to entertain my interests, even if we were actively taking part in it. After he paid a 20 dollar ticket for a special art gallery, he sat in one place and excused himself from viewing the pieces with me because he did not consider the date more important than keeping his feet from hurting, despite knowing that I wanted to spend the day with him, and that I had worn inappropriate footwear previously and walked with him regardless because I wanted to match my walking pace with his, or because I was not going to make my pain known if we were supposed to have productive dates. I also knew that if I voiced a problem, he would accuse me of not being aware of my own faults. I also struggled to keep him happy, even if I wasn’t. I had expressed to him that I was unable to eat gravy because it was one food that triggered emotional distress, and has triggered distress since I was 13. He forced me to consume it, disregarding my distress because he believed it was just me rejecting something miniscule to prove that I was alternative or different than other people. “It would be insulting to my mother if you didn’t eat it,” He said, I was force fed the liquid. I panicked, and he joked about my complete shutdown in front of his entire family (sans grandparents and father). 
Of course, he did not comply with my needs, even if they were distracting or inappropriate. I cannot emphasize the menace that is a mobile ringer. Regardless of the occasion, he had the ringer on, and his phone would ‘blip’, ‘ping’ and ring on and off, regardless of what we were doing. I asked him to turn it off because it was distracting and it was quite rude of him to check his phone at every ping, even if we were on a date, being intimate, whatever it was. He refused to fulfill my request because he was determined to never miss any messages. There were times where I only wished to nap with him, or do nothing. Instead, he pulled out his phone and played games, videos, and disregarded my need to nap or sleep, seeing that I’ve had sleep apnea, and sometimes only sleeping at night would not be enough. He teased me relentlessly about it, and accused me of faking tiredness. 
If there was one thing I was afraid of, it would be not appearing genuine enough, and he made me disingenuous. I generally discouraged interactions between him and my friends, understanding that they had different tastes, interests, and reacted differently with similar situations. I already felt like an outcast in high school, only getting into university through what felt like a loophole, so I did not want him, a man that has a mid sixties’ average, to interact with my friends who saw great value in high grades. I explained to him that I didn’t particularly want him to meet my friends, as they wouldn’t understand his sometimes extremely inappropriate flirting and jokes that were sexual in nature, I didn’t want to be ostracized more by the actions of another person I had no control of. He agreed, for a different reason, “if you’re already so insane and neurotic, I don’t want to meet the rest of them. I bet it would be an absolute hellish experience.” Every time I explained my choice to not involve him, he repeated a similar attitude of holier-than-thou. I did not want to tell him that he wasn’t good enough for my friends nor family, not only because of the arbitrary value we put academic grades on but because he made friends that had met him previously uncomfortable. I felt it necessary to at least introduce him slowly, because by some point I had realized that no one knew anything about him other than his major and university, unable to associate a name nor face to him. I felt like I needed to prove that he was better than how the image they had of him, and vice versa. It was a hard conclusion to reach but I ultimately tried to introduce him, with little positive reception. When we broke up, one of my best friends told me without humour in her voice, “I’m glad that’s over, you deserve so much more.” it was only a few days after we broke up, so I returned her statement with vague words of discontent and regret about the entire relationship. Only now, after months of reflection, have I understood how true that sentence is.
I was not close with his friends, I knew a few of them from being classmates or club mates, but I generally knew little about them. Although I wanted to get to know them better, my ex partner seemingly discouraged our fraternity. Even if I was just asking about how his friends were doing, he would begin complaining about them, expressing the general immaturity and social ineptitude, without an ounce of self awareness. While I originally had no ill will towards many of them, he made me believe that his friends were holding him back from productivity, and he is only remaining friends with them because he felt compelled to help those who he deem inferior. 
When his father confessed that he gaslit his mother, rather than rejecting his father, and supporting his mother’s decision to separate or divorce, he saw his mother as childish and not being forgiving. I spoke to him, arguing that what his father has done cannot simply be forgiven, his mother was entirely economically dependent on his father, he had kept her away from working, both for economic security and her friendships. I told him that I would not support his decision of forcing his mother to confront her abuser in a kind manner. He attempted to explain that his father was not as terrible of a man, that his public career showed him to be a kind man, with great talent and work ethic. I stressed that a man’s professional career cannot and should not be the only indicator of his strength. We went out one night when his mother blocked her husband’s phone number, after he berated her verbally and through text. I was quite proud of her, yet my ex partner screamed at her about her irrational decisions because she was intoxicated and was not thinking straight. I could not speak for anything at that moment, instead, I kept quiet for the rest of the car ride because he threatened that if I spoke too truthfully his mother would cry. I was already dejected and felt estranged from his family, so I saw no need to make our relationship more tense. 
I had already mentioned his constant need for sexual release, however it was far more than that. When it was first proposed, he promised that he would only seek out older men. Yet for whatever reason, his partners came in a variety of men and women, as well as, though not as commonly, non-binary folks. Although I recognise that we are still not even twenty, his partners were often still in high school, or in vulnerable situations where they felt the need to be codependent on a romantic or platonic partner. Although I was in a similar position, I felt it was not as dire, and I was almost forced to share my partner with people who are supposed to only remain separate from our relationship. We shared a non-sexual partner for a few months, however, he had fewer time constrictions, not to mention they went to school in the same area, while I was only able to see her once or twice before she completely cut off communication with me. Although I was not completely interested in pursuing her, we admitted a mutual interest in each other during my birthday, which she and my partner attended. I assume my ex partner felt it necessary for me to have another partner to express my affection to, although I did not particularly wish to, knowing that university would be troubling for the both of us. He convinced me that I had not lost all my feelings from years previous, and we would jointly commit to each other and this singular person. I promised that I would try, despite not having much dating experience to begin with, not to mention my inherent awkwardness with affection. I did not want to love bomb her, knowing that I can be more needier than necessary. I also felt that there was an unbalance, as he and I had already been together for a year, and for her to be suddenly shoved into this arrangement could be detrimental. Although this was not entirely his fault, one of our mutual friends constantly flaunted his sexual interest in my ex partner, and he would flirt back, many times while I was watching. Although I am aware that he would not leave me over a few affectionate words and a dance, I was concerned with the fact that he didn’t feel the need to explain our relationship until I brought it up. My friend genuinely did not recognise that we had gotten together, expressing that neither of us seemed “heterosexual enough”. 
There was another friend that he met through a dating app that truly made me reconsider his character, one which ultimately made me feel so terrible about my behaviour I didn’t want to break up with him in fear of appearing manipulative or abusive. I don’t particularly understand where she gathered information about me, seeing that she and I essentially never had any private conversations, met in real life, or spoke in depth in any capacity. Regardless, she met my partner after leaving an abusive relationship with a much older man and after speaking to him for a week, became such a good friend that she was introduced to his entourage, and decided to privately speak about how I was being abusive to my partner for not accepting him the way she would. I did not, and still do not have time for video games, interactive improv board games such as Dungeons and Dragons, and other games that he and his friends were interested in. While I did attempt to understand and join a campaign, I ultimately found it a strange concept and refused to play with them, as I already had a full time job and a side project that took about 12 hours each week to complete. After a few weeks of speaking to her, he explained to me that his new friend had called me a manipulative abuser, seeing that I did not put his needs before mine. Although we mutually agreed that I was not the insane perception his friend had of me, he never expressed a desire to challenge her beliefs. I had attempted to speak to her privately, which she did not respond to, and she decided to publically air out what she perceived as abusive behaviour I had apparently acted upon my ex partner. Once again, rather than trying to justify why her understanding is incorrect, he told me that he did not want to defend me because it was an issue between her and I, and for him to take my side it would appear biased. Within weeks, he began calling her “darling” and “love”, while I was designated to “sweetie” out of left field. Within two months, he was considering moving in with her, as well as two others from this new friend group “for better access to academic buildings”, despite his previous claims that he did not want to move away from his family, even if it meant he got home at 12 AM on some days. Although I didn’t particularly want to move in with him soon. I felt a sense of discomfort because of her, he had trusted her enough to express that I was being abusive, that he was going to move in with her, and protect her above me. He had not wanted me to meet her out of fear of me attacking her physically or my presence itself making her uncomfortable. I had enough, so I reached out to her directly, asking if she could refrain from expressing disdain against me until we could meet in person. She did not do such a thing, instead attempting to berate me in front of hers and our mutual friends. 
After a few months, although he no longer claimed that I was physically or mentally abusing him, when I would tap his shoulder a little too hard or do something that was deliberately supposed to get a reaction from him, he would laugh and say “this is not an abusive relationship! You’re not just abusing me because you want to!” I had already feared a public freakout from either of us from the recent attempt to break up, so I believed him. I stopped making darker jokes and almost stopped showing physical affection entirely.
By March 2020, I felt disappointed in the direction of our relationship. When we watched a very sentimental movie, I began crying by the 5 second mark. I am aware that I have inappropriate reactions to others expressing pain. When my ex-partner was allergy-ridden, sneezing and crying, I could only respond by laughing in awkwardness. I know that a normal partner would aid in recovery in providing the other party with tissues, pills, anything that would help. I could only watch, express my disgust and concern through laughter. Regardless, when I began crying and explaining my sudden overpour of emotion, he asked me not to cry. He expressed that although the ideas that were being expressed were depressing, my tears were taking away from the overall experience because it doesn’t allow him to focus on the film itself. I did not care. When my lung collapsed, rather than coming over to cheer me up, he cried into my shoulder and put his entire weight onto me, when I was unable to even stand straight. At that point, I knew that cheering him up was more important than my own emotional comfort, as he had previously expressed that he could never cry about real issues he faced. On that day, almost two years into our relationship, I finally felt like I was close to him, I could learn about what was in his mind. Every time I attempted to talk to him about more serious topics, he would convince me to spend our time performing sexual activities instead, regardless of who was in the house, and if I was interested in partaking in any part of it. 
I was forced to speak to him about our failing relationship over the phone, where I was unable to see his reaction and work with him right away. I expressed that I was sick of his inability to take responsibility academically, romantically, and general dismissal of my attempts to help with his inadequacies in any way I could. If he had an issue with an assignment, I would directly give him instructions, I gave more options as to more domestic dates when the quarantine began because I didn’t want our relationship to wholly rely on sex. If he asked for help, I tried with all my power to lift him up. Yet, every time I asked him about the reception of his work, images of his progress, everything on how his art has changed since I tried to help, he had the same few canned responses. “The professor was too harsh”, “I didn’t have enough time to do what I wanted”, “my professor didn’t understand my message”. He wouldHe was slightly different with his attitude with me. I understand that I don’t particularly know when to stop, thus I harm myself physically and psychologically with my projects time and time again. However, he portrayed my selflessness as proof that I needed a caretaker, and he would be my caretaker. Rather than proposing ways I could help myself he reacted to my actions after I had already hurt myself, expressing his disappointment and condescendingly describing to me every ill action I took to get to that point. Whenever he wanted to critique my actions and art, he did not pull back, even if it wasn’t the best. Whereas I critiqued with kiddy gloves, in fear of him crying, expressing that I was too harsh and didn’t appreciate his individual style and ideas, even if I was just concerned with the technical skills. It was never official critiquing, but a general lack of care with my art, often just saying “oh noice”, or “hey, that’s pretty good”, without a second thought about it. There were times where he told me he didn’t want to entertain my thoughts that I was good or even decent in a skill because he would be lying to me. Even when I was trying my hardest in a skill he believed he had a place to critique, he would express how terrible I was, how much better I could do, and even sometimes requesting I never do such things again because it would be an insult to the thing I attempted to do or make. I asked him to help with a group of video essays in the summer; although he did help, he only provided aid when I was with him, doing the bare minimum. After the third editing session, I asked if he was frustrated, because he was expressing boredom and sometimes even irritation after I corrected him. He responded by saying that he took away none of the information, and had not cared for the projects, especially if he was not involved with the process. He continued by expressing to me that my essays were inappropriate for his family to watch despite the subject matters often being light in nature and educational, therefore not promoting the content to his friends nor family. 
I needed him to acknowledge my art and skill, even if he felt the activity to be unnecessary. I began feeling different about art when I was in middle school, in an art program. At that moment, I felt like I had finally escaped banality, I could prove that although I wasn’t smart in an academic way, I was still able to create for the world. Of course, the experience was not as positive as I wish it was. Once again I was stuck behind a computer and asked to do what I was told, my passion began drying up as many of the instructors and teachers did not care what we took away from their lesson, only that we looked like we listened as they advertised their productions and new tech they didn’t fully understand. When I was outed, I was rejected by some of my closest peers, derogatory jokes were made at my expense, and I had once again felt incompetent and stupid. This led to my suicidal ideations growing, I felt as I couldn't control what I was making, and it was the point where I no longer saw my art as my own. Every project that was due, the only thing I could think of is “If you can’t make art, why live?” The only thing that stopped me was the thought that my family would have no heir, and would have to explain why I was gone. When I no longer cared about staying alive for my parents after discovering their homophobia, my reason shifted back to art, and a friend I was deeply infatuated with. When we were in the last years of high school, my friend confessed that she could not even imagine being with a woman, that she could never feel anything beyond platonic friendship. At that moment, my ex partner came into my life, although it felt like I was experiencing the worst weeks of my life, I maintained my dignity with him by my side. When I expressed my suicidal ideation that has persisted for years, he became concerned about my working habits, my theory of my raison d’etre and killing myself after I ran out of ideas on art making and self expression. He begged that rather than living for art, I should live for him, breathe because he needs me to keep breathing, so I placed him on a pedestal and sought for his affection as a reason to continue. 
By the end of our relationship, I depended on him to recognise signs of toxicity in my environment and platonic relationships. He had helped me escape a toxic group of friends that suicide-bated me after I left and blamed my undiagnosed mental illness when I brought up seeing an admin misuse his power. Although my ex did not blame me for everything that happened, he thought it was necessary to remember one phrase, “did it happen or are you just mentally ill?” He had always believed that I needed professional mental health care, however he pushed me to believe that I was nothing without my mental illness. He made me believe that he was only with me because of my anxiety and panic. When he made me doubt my mental state, accusing me of having a panic attack in public, or stating that I looked ill and my actions were not normal, to then relieve me of it with hugs and whispers, I believed him. I believed that he could see my state of being better than myself, that I was worthless without him, that I would experience all the thoughts and attacks without any support when we broke up.  
One of the final straws that broke the camel’s back was an argument that I had with him over $90 and an inconsequential online exhibition application. I had presented to him the opportunities I found, and how I was going to insert many of my recent works for judging because as a young artist I had not wanted to let my chances run away before I had even attempted to further my career. Rather than being happy for me or expressing interest in the opportunity himself, he berated me for thinking it was a viable opportunity for recognition, citing the fact that the applicant would have to pay out of pocket for a chance to even be considered for judging. At this point, I had deleted much of my social media, cut contact with upperclassmen, and socially isolated myself so much I had no opportunity to exhibit my works other than opportunities that I made for myself away from social media. He expressed to me that because I was paying my way into an opportunity, I was doing it for clout, rather than being recognized for my abilities naturally. “Would this be a good purchase? Do you think this would be a good reason to waste almost a hundred dollars? Because you want art critics to be paid so they could reject your art?”
The pain I felt was deafening. Whereas I saw a chance to compete and place myself onto a more professional art world, he saw it as selling out because I wanted two minutes of fame. When I showed the pieces to him previously, both as they were being made and finished, he had nothing much to say about them, only that they were visually interesting, and different from the works I was creating previously. After an hour of deliberation, I guiltily paid the application fee. When confronted with the possibility of putting a price on my works, I asked what he would do in this situation, and how I should price my works that I’ve poured my hard work into. He responded with aggression once again; “Why are you trying to cheat people out of their hard earned money? Do you think your art is worth a price tag?” All I wanted was some advice as to marketing myself, something he convinced me he was good at, that his nepotistic internships allowed him opportunities to hone his skills in advertising and marketing. Instead, he showed me nothing but hostility. He confronted me with much more emotion than anything else in our relationship, it was no longer about pleading with me about a financial decision he deemed poor, he was completely confident that I should not be trusted with my own money. I had never been screamed at by him, so I began crying, “Do I not deserve to thrive? Are my ideas and creations not worth being looked at?” After explaining how I felt, he apologized and said “I didn’t think you would react this way. I’m sorry for saying that.” I wish I asked if he meant to say what he said, or if he apologized because I asked him to apologize. 
When we broke up, he wanted to remain friends with me, citing his concern for my mental well being. He wanted to make sure I was still able to function even if he wasn’t going to win my affection back. Although I agreed to remain friends, part of my brain believed it would be a terrible idea, because I should not remain friends with someone who has already shown a reluctance to appreciate my personhood if he was not involved. He texted me the next day to see how I was doing, and if I was okay by myself, I felt like I needed to explain myself to him, so I did. He texted me daily, like he did when we were still together. I felt like I was going to return whether I wanted to or not. I needed to rebuild my friendships again and avoid him. After I blocked his accounts and deleted our chat logs, he found ways to worm back. For weeks I felt an imminent fear when I opened my email, I’ve completely refused to return to other platforms because even the thought of seeing a message from him would make my head hurt. “I don’t think you love me as much as I love you.” Bullshit. He might’ve loved me, but it feels like he was attempting to mould me into who he believed I should be, rather than what I wanted to become. I don’t owe him anything, I want myself back.
